
OOPs refers to Object-Oriented Programming. It is the programming paradigm that aims to implement real-world entities and is relation and behaviours.

Class: Can be understood as a template or a blueprint having all the functions and properties. An object acquires all of it.

Objects: Objects can be defined as instances of a class having all the behaviours and values of the class.

Features of OOPs:
There are four major features of OOPs.

Inheritance: Mechanism by which an object or class is created using a definition of another object or class. Improves code reusability.

Polymorphism: It means to behave differently in different conditions. 

Encapsulation: Process of binding data members and methods to do a job without revealing unnecessary information. (Data Binding + Data Hiding)

Abstraction: Mechanism by which only relevant details are shown. Other non-important components are hidden.


Static vs Non- static functions:

Static Function: No object is created hence requires no memory. Can take only static members as parameters.
Can be accessed without creating an object of a class.

Non- static Function: Requires an object, hence uses memory. Can take both static and non-static members as parameters.
To access non-static methods we need to create an object of the class.

Constructor:
We use Constructor to initialize a class object. It is a special member function that is automatically called when an instance is created.

Three main types of the constructor (in C++ and the only ones asked in interviews):
Default Constructor: No parameters or arguments.

Copy Constructor: Initialises object using another object of the same class.

Parameterized Constructor: A parameter is passed as an argument to the class. When defining the body of a class, use the parameter to define the values.

Inheritance:
Inheritance of some characteristics or behaviour of one entity by another entity is called inheritance.

Types of Inheritance:
1)Single Inheritance 2)Multiple Inheritance 3) Multilevel- Inheritance

Java doesn't support multiple inheritances
Subclass: The inheriting class
Superclass: The inherited class


Types of Polymorphism: 
Compile Time Polymorphism :
Also known as static polymorphism. The flow of execution is based on parameters and arguments at compile time.

1) Method Overloading
If an entity has multiple implementations in the same name. The same name of methods but different parameters/parameter types.
Only changing the return type of method will result in ambiguity.

The main method can be overloaded and can be called from only the original method with parameter string array.

2) Operator Overloading
Providing the operator with a special meaning like '+','-', etc.

Run Time Polymorphism: 
Also known as Dynamic Polymorphism. Decided at run time.

1)Method Overriding
The same method defined in the parent class can be defined again in the subclass and overridden.
Only the methods can be overridden by inheritance and not the variable.

'super' keyword used to access the parent methods.

Abstraction: 
Hiding unwanted details and only giving the functions to the user.
Achieved with the help of abstract methods and classes.
Abstract classes: A class whose methods are only declared not defined. The inheriting class need to define their own definitions of the methods.

Interface: For an interface implementation, one must define all its methods.

Abstract class vs Interface
An abstract class can be inherited but an Interface can be implemented.
Abstract classes can have non-final variables but Interface variables are static and final.
Only need to define the classes which you want to use but in the case of Interface, we need to define all the methods.

Exception:
Exceptional/Special Event occurs during the execution when execution runs into something that is not defined or illegal access.
To handle software failures we use Exception Handling.

Java only uses Object Oriented Programming while C++ uses both OOPs and structural programming.
Garbage Collection: Automatic in Java, we don't need to think of its implementation.
